Q1: Which of the following best expresses the difference between data and information?
(a)Data are meaningful facts whereas information is unprocessed symbols  (b)Data are raw facts,whereas information is processed meaningful
(c)Data are always numbers,whereas information is always text.  (d)Data and information are interchangeable terms
Q2:
(a)  (b)
(c)  (d)

Q3: Which level of database abstraction describes how the data are actually stored on disk(indexes, hashing)?
(a)External/View level  (b)Conceptual level (c)Physical/Internal level (d)Logical level

Q4: Which database model stores information as nodes, edges, and properties, making it especially suitable for relationship-heavy data(e.g social networks)?
(a)Hierarchical model  (b)Relational model  (c)Graph model  (d)Flat-file database

Q5: Which statement is true for a flat-file database but false for a DBMS?
(a)Data are stored in multiple related tables (b)Complex querying and transaction control are provided.
(c)Only one simple table with no inter-table relationships is used. (d)It enforces strong data integrity constrainst automatically.

Q6: Logical data independence means that changes mae at which level should not affect external views?
(a) Physical level (b)Conceptual(logical) schema  (c)Internal storage model (d)Application program level

Q7: In a network DBMS, what relationship strength makes it more flexible than the hierarchical model?
(a)Only one-to-one links (b)Fixed one-to-many links  (c)Many-to-many links through multiple owners/members records  (d)No explicit links(all data are flat)

Q8: The primary goal of data abstraction in a DBMS is to:
(a)Compress data for efficient storage (b)Hide complex storage details from users while presenting a simplified view 
(c)Encrypt for security (d)Remove redundant data from all tables

Q9: Which NoSQL database type stores data as self-describing documnets(often JSON-like) and is popular for its flexible schema?
(a)Graph database (b)Document database (c)Key-value store (d)Column-family store

Q10: Given the table definition below,which statement correctly adds a primary-key constraints on column Sno?
CREATE TABLE Employee(
   Sno Number,
   Fname Varchar2(50),
   Lname VARCHAR2(50),
   Age NUMBER,
   Salary Number,
   Branch NUMBER
);
(a)ALTER TABLE Employee ADD PRIMARYKEY(Sno); (b)ALTER TABLE Employee ADD CONSTRAINT pk_emp PRIMARY KEY(Sno);✔️
(c)ALTER TABLE Employee ADD UNIQUE(Sno) PRIMARY; (D)ALTER Employee TABLE ADD KEY Sno;
To add a Primary Key in an existing table

















